---
description: null
seo-description: null
seo-title: Sessions Request Parameter Details
title: Sessions Request Parameter Details
uuid: b853de75-9aac-4c95-9ace-efde4a39a551
index: y
internal: n
snippet: y
translate: y
---

# Sessions Request Parameter Details


<a id="section_ryt_ccy_lcb"></a>


* ** `visitor.marketingCloudUserId` ** You can pass the Experience Cloud User ID (also known as the `mid` or `mcid`) on the `sessionStart` call by including it inside the `params` map using the following key: **visitor.marketingCloudUserId**. This is a useful feature if you already integrate with other Experience Cloud products and have already obtained the MCID. 

  >[!NOTE]
  >
  >Video Analytics is integrated with the Experience Cloud family of apps (Adobe Analytics, Audience Manager, Target, and so on). You need an Experience Cloud ID to access these apps.

* ** `appInstallationId`**
  >[!NOTE]
  >
  >This parameter is optional.

    * **If you *do not* pass an `appInstallationId` value - **The VA backend will no longer generate a MCID, but instead will rely on Adobe Analytics to do this. Adobe's recommendation is to either send a MCID if available, or an `appInstallationId` (along with the still mandatory `marketingCloudOrgId`) so that the Media Collection API generates the MCID and sends it on all calls.
    * **If you *do* pass `appInstallationId` value - **The MCID *can be* generated by the VA back end, if you pass values for `appInstallationId` and the (required) `marketingCloudOrgId` parameters. If you do pass `appInstallationId` yourself, you must persist its value on the client side. It must be unique to the app on a device, and must be persistent for as long as the app is not re-installed.

  >[!NOTE]
  >
  >The `appInstallationId` uniquely identifies the app *and the device*. It needs to be unique for each app on each device, i.e., two users using the same version of the same app on different devices must each send a different (unique) `appInstallationId`.
  <!-- Initially, there were no browser-based customers. In future this will be part of a two-bullet list, one bullet for Native Apps, the other for Browser apps. The .
<ul id="ul_iwc_fqt_pbb"> 
 <li>For Browser Apps, this should be a first-party cookie that is persistent for as long as the user stays in the same browser. If clients have multiple websites, they need to have different cookies for each site.</li> 
</ul> -->
* ** `visitor.marketingCloudOrgId` **In addition to being necessary for MCID generation when that is not provided, this parameter is also used as the value for the publisher ID (based on which Video Analytics performs [federation rule matching](https://marketing.adobe.com/resources/help/en_US/sc/appmeasurement/hbvideo/federated-analytics.html)). 

* **Analytics Legacy User ID (aid)** and **Declared User IDs (customerIDs)**:

    * **analytics.aid**: The value of this key must be a string that represents the Analytics Legacy User ID
    * **visitor.customerIDs**: The value of this key must be an object of the following format:     
      ```
      <b>“<<insert your ID name here>>”: { “id”: “</b>
<b><<insert your id here>>”, “authState”: <<insert one of 0, 1, 2>>}</b>
      ```
      Note that the **visitor.customerIDs** value can have any number of objects in the presented format.


* ** `visitor.aamLocationHint` ** AAM Location Hint: This parameter indicates which Adobe Audience Manager (AAM) Edge would be hit when Adobe Analytics sends the customer data to Audience Manager. If you don't pass this parameter, Adobe hardcodes it to 1. This is particularly important when end users tend to use their devices in geographically distant locations (e.g., US-East, US-West, Europe, Asia). Otherwise, user data will be spread across multiple AAM Edges.

* ** `media.resume` **If the app determines that a session was closed and then resumed at a later time, e.g., the user left the video but eventually came back, and the player resumed the video from the playhead where it was stopped, you can send an optional boolean **media.resume** parameter inside the params bucket of the `sessionStart` call.


