---
title: Player state parameters
description: This topic describes player state tracking parameters.
uuid: 2a6b9247-a694-46e9-98e1-424c08c27ec2

---

# Player state parameters{#player-state-parameters}

This topic presents a list of player state data that Adobe collects via solution variables.

Table data description:

* **Implementation:** Information on implementation values and requirements
   * *Key* - Variable, set either manually in your app, or automatically by the Adobe Media SDK.
   * *Required* - Indicates whether the parameter is required for basic video tracking.
   * *Type* - Specifies the type of the variable to be set, string or number.
   * *Sent With* - Indicates when the data is sent: *Media Start* is the analytics call sent on media start, *Ad Start* is the analytics call sent on ad start, and so on; the *Close* calls are the compiled analytics calls sent directly from the heartbeat server to the analytics server at the end of the media session, or the end of the ad, chapter, etc. The close calls are not available in network packet calls.
   * *Min. SDK Version* - Indicates which SDK version you would need to access the parameter.
   * *Sample Value* - Provides example of common variable usage.
* **Network Parameters:** Displays the values that are passed to Adobe Analytics or Heartbeat servers. This column shows the names of the parameters that are seen in the network calls generated by Adobe Media SDKs.
* **Reporting:** Information on how to view and analyze the video data.
   * *Available* - Indicates whether the data is available in reporting by default (*Yes*), or requires custom set-up (*Custom*)
   * *Reserved Variable* - Indicates whether the data is captured as an event, eVar, prop, or classification in a reserved variable.
   * *Report Name* - Name of Adobe Aanlytics report for variable
   * *Context Data* - Name of the Adobe Analytics context data passed to the reporting server and used in processing rules.
   * *Data Feed* - Column name for variable found in Clickstream or Live Stream data feeds
   * *Audience Manager* - Trait name found in Adobe Audience Manager

>[!IMPORTANT]
>
>Do not change the classification names for any variables listed below that are described under Reporting/Reserved Variable as "classification".  
>The media classifications are defined when a report suite is enabled for media tracking. From time to time, Adobe adds new properties, and, when this occurs, customers must re-enable their report suites to get access to the new media properties. During the update process Adobe determines whether the classifications are enabled by checking the names of the variables. If any of them is missing, Adobe adds the missing ones again.



## Player State Properties {#player-state-properties}

The Player State Tracking properties tables are organized in the following five sections:

* Full Screen
   * Streams Impacted by Full Screen
   * Full Screen Counts
   * Full Screen Total Duration
* Close Caption
   * Streams Impacted by Closed Captioning
   * Closed Captioning Counts
   * Closed Captioning Total Duration
* Mute
   * Streams Impacted by Mute
   * Mute Counts
   * Mute Total Duration
* Picture in Picture
   * Stream Impacted by Picture in Picture
   * Picture in Picture Counts
   * Picture in Picture Total Duration
* In Focus
   * Streams Impacted by In Focus
   * In Focus Counts
   * In Focus Total Duration

### Full Screen Properties

#### Streams Impacted by Full Screen

| &nbsp;&nbsp;Implementation&nbsp;&nbsp; | Network&nbsp;Parameters | Reporting |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <ul> <li> **SDK Key**<br/> Automatically set  </li> <li> **API Key**<br/> N/A </li> <li> **Required**<br/> No </li> <li> **Type**<br/> number </li> <li> **Sent with**<br/> Media Close </li> <li> **Min. SDK Version**<br/> 3.0</li> <li> **Sample Value**<br/> TRUE </li><li> **Description**<br/>The number of streams impacted by Full Screen. This metric is set to 1 only if at least one Full Screen State occurred during a playback session. <br/> **Important**  If this event is set, the only possible value is TRUE. If this event is not set, no value is sent.   </li> </ul> | <ul> <li> **Adobe Analytics**<br/> (a.media.states.fullscreen.set)<br/></li> <li> **Heartbeat**<br/> N/A </li> </ul> | <ul> <li> **Available**<br/> Yes </li> <li> **Reserved Variable**<br/> event </li> <li> **Report Name**<br/> Streams Impacted by Full Screen </li> <li> **Context Data**<br/> (a.media.states.fullscreen.set)<br/> </li> <li> **Data Feed**<br/> videostatefullscreen </li> <li> **Audience Manager**<br/> (c_contextdata.a.media.states.fullscreen.set) </li> </ul> |

#### Full Screen Counts

Add table here



#### Full Screen Total Duration

Add table here


## Close Caption Properties

Add table here




## Related APIs {#related_apis_section}

NEED: Add API links to docs:
* Android - [createStateObject](https://need)
* iOS - [createStateObjectWithName](https://need)
* Javascript - [createStateObject](https://need)
